welcome to Maastricht University are you
ready
wait a minute
that's what you're expecting but that's
not how we do it small tutorial groups
that's better
Maastricht University is known for
problem-based learning PBL we solve
complex problems ourselves using
real-life cases each group has 12 to 15
students and we divide the different
tasks between ourselves dozing and
lecture halls is not an option we all
participate actively in the discussion
one student leads the discussion
ensuring that it stays on track to make
sure we don't forget anything the
secretary takes notes of what we say the
other students to play an active part
together we ensure that the group
process runs as smoothly as possible so
what does the tutor do he or she is
specially trained to monitor the whole
process making sure we don't miss
anything but we often make good progress
by ourselves and so the tutor stays in
the background let's get back to the
case a case is a problem from everyday
professional practice we each receive a
text describing the case and we read it
carefully the case is complicated
we'll need strategy and teamwork to
solve the problem the tutorials provide
a safe environment where we learn to
communicate effectively discuss and
cooperate with one another we start by
examining the case through active
brainstorming we try to get a picture of
the puzzle and it's individual pieces
we're often amazed at how much we
already know
the next step is to cluster the pieces
of information theories are separated
from experience causes from consequences
in this way we get a good idea of the
structure of the problem
finally for each category we search for
the missing pieces of the puzzle based
on what we need to find out we formulate
learning goals these are concrete
questions that help us to identify the
required information the tutorial is
over it's time to go and do some
research working independently and using
the research skills we've learned we
each look for answers to the learning
goal set during the tutorial the
University Library is home to the
Learning and Resource Centers and all
sorts of other resources after a few
days we meet again in this session we
each present our findings based on what
we have found out we try to arrive at a
solution usually this goes fine but
sometimes it can be hard to bring all
the information together as not everyone
has come up with the same findings
fortunately the tutor is there to help
us reach a consensus the knowledge and
experience of the tutor come in handy we
repeat this process in every tutorial in
addition we also have lectures this
helps us get prepared for the exams now
you know how PBL works but do you also
know why we use it the reason is clear
with PBL we learn more than just facts
we learn to conduct our own research to
think and work in a solution-focused way
we learn to collaborate with others and
deal with feedback and we are always
actively involved in the tutorials in
this way we remember more not least
because the tutorials always alternate
with practicals and skills training
sessions the skills vary per program
from analyzing statistical data to
pleading a court case or examining a
patient once more we work in teams this
experience will come in handy in our
future careers we learn to understand
and respect other people's points of
view and our students come from all
over the world this makes our learning
environment highly international dynamic
and innovative problem-based learning at
Maastricht University giving you a solid
foundation for your career